# ProjectReport

Problem Description: The project I decided to attempt was the design of a calculator. This calculator was to be capable of doing essential calculator functions. This included the following; addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and exponentials. I decided to implement these by using an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) to control the different aspects of the calculator. The ALU was then used with registers so that it could save the value of two different binary numbers that then will be able to be added, subtracted, multiplied, and divided. This will also be able to take the exponentials for an eight-bit number.

Background Information: This project was attempted in Quartas 16.1 using Verilog code, the results were to be generated on a DE2-115 board that has a variety of pins and displays to project the results of the Verilog code. Verilog code is a hardware language used for electronic systems. It is used in the design of digital circuits at the register level. The DE2-115 board is a very versatile object that has multiple capabilities, such as audio and visual displays as well as other items.

Basic Description: This project started with the base design of a register, a register is something that stores information in itself and saves that information so that it can be used later in a design. A register was needed to be used in this project because of the limited number of switches that are located on a DE2-115 board, this DE2-115 board is the place where the results can be projected. The next thing needed for this project is an ALU. An ALU or arithmetic logic unit is a combinational circuit that is able to switch what arithmetic it performs depending on the input. In this project, it can switch between; addition, subtraction, multiplication, etc.. The last thing that is designed is what goes into each selected alu. This is where the code for adding, subtracting, multiplying, and the other arithmetic for two binary eight-bit numbers goes. This combined with the reigister and with the ALU is then able to perform the selected operation and display the result on the DE2-115 board.

Results: I could not get this display to function correctly. I constantly would get stuck at the display sitting on the input for either the 8-bit A number or the 8-bit B number and could not get it to display the result (C). I restarted the code multiple times but never got past that part of the project.

Conclusion: This report shows what I tried to complete during this design project. This ultimately was an unsuccessful design, as I could not get the full project to work properly on the display.

Citations: No citations were needed in this project.
